Cape Town - Luyanda Botha has been charged with two counts of rape in addition to a murder charge, the State announced on Tuesday. The Post Office worker is accused of raping and murdering UCT student Uyinene 'Nene' Mrwetyana at the Clareinch Post Office in Claremont in August. His legal team has confirmed that he will no longer be seeking bail. Botha, who is represented by John Solomons, appeared before magistrate Goolam Bawa at the Wynberg Magistrate's Court. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) heavyweight Rodney de Kock will lead the State's case. The court was packed to capacity with students wanting to have a peek at the accused. But they were denied the opportunity when he emerged from the holding cells wearing a hooded jacket . Once in the dock, he removed the hoodie, allowing onlookers to catch a rear side view of his face. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Before proceedings commenced Bawa announced that since the investigation and the identity parade have been concluded the restriction on identifying the suspect by name is lifted. De Kock said: "All documents relating to the investigation has been handed to the defence. A complete docket off all evidence as well as the post mortem report have also been handed to the defence. "The defence needs to consult with his client and take appropriate instructions. The matter is postponed till Thursday to hand over the indictment to the defence and referral to the Western Cape High." He added that next Friday has been set as a trial date. Solomons confirming that he had received the documents informed the court that his client has abandoned his bail application.  At a press conference after the hearing De Kock shocked journalists when he said: "The accused is facing two counts of rape, murder and defeating the ends of justice." It is the State's case that the accused attacked and raped Mrwetyana inside the Claremont post office in August and bashed her head with a scale. The accused then allegedly dumped her body in Lingelethu West. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. vincent.cruywagen@inl.co.za Cape Argus