Cape Town - Thousands of motorcyclists turned up for this year's annual Toy Run Cape Town with the aim being to collect toys for needy children. The event, now in its 37th year, is aiming at collecting between 12 -15 thousand toys for children in need in homes, orphanages, places of safety and hospitals around the Western Cape. The Toy Run is South Africa’s largest motorcycle ride, and every year at the end of November thousands of bikers rally together for charity. On Sunday, bikers descended on the Killarney International Raceway in Cape Town to give joy to the needy children of South Africa. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The event began in 1983 as an interclub ride that brought together 76 motorcycles and their riders which has grown a hundredfold. The bikers had decided that they needed to give back to the community, and did this by taking up the collection of toys for children for the festive season who do not have access to toys or never had toys. Glynis Coetzee of the Toy Run said each toy collected represented a child who will have their day made a little brighter by it. “Many of these children do not have a source of pleasure and fun, they come from abused and abandoned homes and have nothing. It is wonderful to consider that the little soft toy, cricket bat or soccer ball is one thing that these kids will get the entire year that will inspire them and make them feel like they are cared for,” Coetzee said. “There is this image in the movies and media that bikers are bad boys and that they terrorise towns but in fact they have good hearts and care for children and their communities. By doing this we are trying to improve their image while helping the vulnerable,” she said. She said next year they were expecting the number of donations to grow and encouraged communities to not only donate toys but also education toys and sporting equipment. Those that could not attend the event but wish to donate can purchase a toy from the Toy Run registry which will go directly to a needy child. Visit the website to further assist: https://www.toyrun.co.za/capetown/ To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. mthuthuzeli.ntseku@inl.co.za Cape Argus