Cape Town - South Africa’s first cannabis pizza is here, and it’s delicious. Italian-inspired local franchise Col’Cacchio just launched its new range of pizzas with a topping of cannabidiol (CBD) oil. Co-founder of Col’Cacchio, Kinga Baranowska, said her pizzas have always been about innovation, and this is just her latest way of experimenting in the kitchen. “We’ve always pushed the boundaries with our pizzas,” she said. “I’ve heard good things about CBD. I’m doing it because it’s something new and fun. I hope everyone comes and tries it.” The pizzas are baked normally, then garnished with 4 sprays of africanpure CBD oil before serving. This delivers a dose of 20mgs of CBD per pizza. That’s the maximum legal daily dose as stipulated by former Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi’s CBD exemption notice, which became law at the end of May this year. There are two cannabis pizza options. The Green Goddess is vegetarian and will set you back R125, featuring charred baby marrow strips, feta and fresh basil leaves, for a deliciously fresh and salty flavour. Then there’s a more classic chicken, mushroom and peppadew offering, which turns up the heat with a spicy tomato base. This one is called the Not-So-Plain Mary Jane and costs R140.  If neither of these tickle your tastebuds, you can always order any pizza off the menu and add CBD oil as an extra for R25. If you’re expecting a grassy, herby, oily residue on top of the pizza, don’t be put off. You can smell a gentle suggestion of the CBD oil, but you can’t taste it at all. Flavour-wise, you’re eating a normal thin-base pizza with tasty toppings. Baranowska said she chose the toppings to complement and assimilate the CBD flavour. “It’s quite neutral actually. Together with the pizza, the spicy base and roasted mushrooms, it blends in quite well,” she said. “I wanted to go with natural flavours, so no processed meats like salami or ham, to go with the natural CBD oil.” The CBD oil used is produced by local company africanpure, which manufactures the oil out of imported cannabis from Switzerland. Africanpure co-founder Mike Saunders said the CBD oil is 100% legal and safe. "It's absolutely safe to give to your kids and your pets." He said the cannabis pizza is certain to be a massive hit. “We are really thrilled to be at the forefront of the cannabis story in South Africa and to be working with one of the country’s most innovative restaurant franchise groups,” Saunders said. “Col’Cacchio is a model example of what we as africanpure are striving to achieve, using only the very best ingredients and providing wholesome accessible products to all our customers.” The cannabis pizzas are now on sale at all Col’Cacchio branches excluding the Windhoek and Halaal outlets. Weekend Argus