In its sixth year, the programme gives an opportunity for alumni to pledge financial support for their alma mater through a donation. During the phonathon period, students and volunteers phone the university’s alumni. UCT Student Representative Council chairperson Asanda Lobelo said this was a great programme to help students, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds. “Students are struggling with funds, and some of them are sleeping with an empty stomach almost every day. We urge our alumni to help us with this initiative,” Lobelo said. UCT vice-chancellor Mamokgethi Phakeng said student hunger was a growing national challenge. “Last year, the National Research Foundation reported that more than 30% of the country’s students are food insecure, compared with 26% of the population. Campus food insecurity remains high at institutions across the country, including UCT,” Phakeng said. She said the UCT Food Programme was launched during the November examination period last year, to address the issue of student hunger while promoting the dignity of the students, “all underpinned by a spirit of volunteerism”. Phakeng said the programme was a collaborative initiative that involved several departments, as well as student and staff volunteers from across the university, under the leadership of Professor Loretta Feris, Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Transformation. “Through the programme, UCT provides 600 lunches daily for students on upper campus, the College of Music, Hiddingh campus, Health Sciences, Law and at the Child Guidance Clinic. “It is envisaged that, from 2020, students will be issued food vouchers that will be redeemable at the UCT Food and Connect outlets on campus. This will enable students to have a wider choice, and remove the indignity that may be associated with food insecurity. “The cost of a single daily voucher, based on the 2019 costs, is R32. With 600 students being part of the current programme - and the number of affected students estimated to be higher - a total of R1.5 million is projected to be needed to fund the programme in 2020. “We therefore urge and appeal to members of the UCT community to give to this worthwhile intervention to help us reach the target amount.” Phakeng said the university was developing a sustainable food programme. “This will explore various options for food security and harness the spirit of volunteerism that has already rallied UCT and the broader community,” Phakeng said. For further information, or to volunteer, contact Edwina Brooks at Edwina.Brooks@uct.ac.za. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus