Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a group of about 500 people participated in a protest on Monday, where a Golden Arrow bus and a truck were torched. She said the protesters threw stones and burnt tyres at Govan Mbeki, Symphony Way and Stock Road, resulting in road closures. Golden Arrow spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said one bus was set alight. “A group of unknown perpetrators surrounded the bus and began pelting it with stones. The driver and passengers then fled. “Then the bus (was) set alight and it subsequently burnt out completely. The cause of the attack is unknown at this stage, but it would appear that it is related to protest action in the area.” Community leader for Marikana informal settlement Mongezi Sibhidla said the community was not happy with Premier Alan Winde’s response to their grievances, tabled last month. Winde’s spokesperson Bianca Capazorio said the situation in Marikana was a “deeply complex one” as the land is privately owned, and the 60000-strong community of Marikana has developed on invaded land. “Despite this, we have been willing to engage with the community and its leadership in order to find a solution. “The matter is the subject of a Supreme Court of Appeal case, which will be heard on September 3. The province and the City are in talks about how best to resolve the issues raised by the residents in a memorandum dated May 23, 2019,” said Capazorio, adding that following the acceptance of the memorandum, Winde and the MEC for Human Settlements Tertius Simmers undertook a visit to Marikana. She said the demands outlined in the memorandum included that the Marikana land be bought or expropriated, as well as the provision of electricity, full-flush toilets and access roads. Winde has requested a meeting with the City, the national Department of Human Settlements and with the private landowners, said Capazorio. “He requested that the leadership of the community give him time to schedule and hold these engagements and committed to provide updates once the meetings have taken place.” sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus