Organised by the Global Classroom Partnership, the programme started on June 19 when children from the different countries met with their host parents. It ends on Saturday. “The countries participating are Spain, Australia, US, Germany, Czech Republic, Shetland Islands and South Africa, with around eight pupils taking part from each country,” said Zeid Baker, principal of South Peninsula High School. “Every one of the international pupils is (staying with) a parent of the school and so the children get to know each other and learn about different cultures. We target pupils between the ages of 16 and 17 years old.” The aim of the conference is to get young people together from all over the world and promote global consciousness about issues that affect all people, with the 2019 theme being activism. “The pupils will have to do research about the issues around activism in their own countries, do presentations about their topics, perform a musical number on stage and do a play demonstrating a form of activism.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. For more than 23 years the programme took place at different schools in Cape Town, but over time that was discontinued. “South Peninsula has been part of the Global Classroom Partnership for the last 16 years and our pupils, and the parents raise funds for the international trips that children at the school take.” Lionel Adriaan, 82, a retired teacher from Harold Cressy High School and an education activist, is the co-ordinator of the Global Classroom Partnership in South Africa. He started the project in 1997. “The children who meet through this programme will often end up being lifelong friends; we even had a camp for them on Friday at Simon's Town, as a bit of an ice-breaker to get them chatting,” Adriaan said. Imaan Dudukay, a Grade 11 pupil at the school, said: “Next year, I plan on being part of the Global Classroom Partnership again, which will be hosted in Germany. My family is hosting two pupils, one from Czech Republic and one from Australia. They have a lot in common with me and in such a short time we've become like sisters.” Australian teacher Lake Ginninderra said: “Being part of this conference has been fantastic and it's really inspirational seeing the kids who took part last year catching up and bonding with some of the friends they made.” kauthar.gool@inl.co.za Cape Argus