Cape Town – The Stellenbosch Arterial has been closed to traffic in both directions between Adam Tas and the Delft main roads on the Cape Flats on Thursday morning due to protest action. Cape Town Traffic spokesperson Richard Coleman told the SABC protesters are burning tyres in the roadway. The Gatvol Capetonians total shutdown movement had promised to barricade major roads and intersections in the City of Cape Town from 5am to 11am to protest against housing shortages. "Authorities are keeping a close eye on communities joining this morning's total shutdown. Several roads have been affected, including the main arterial roads into the city, which is going to affect your morning commute," CapeTalk reported. "Authorities have also confirmed there have been some isolated incidents of stone-throwing in Parkwood and Ocean View." Protesters have prevented vehicles from entering and leaving Parkwood near Grassy Park. A section of the M5 has also been cordoned off by law enforcement officials. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Traffic has also been disrupted, among others, at Voortrekker Road near Kensington, Wale Street in the Bo-Kaap at Buitengracht Street, where there is a heavy police presence in the area, and the R300 near Delft. A Parkwood resident, although inconvenienced in getting to work, said: “You know getting to work is a problem but I also believe it must be done because people are struggling. "They live in backyards and have been for years and it is time that people stand up because we have been downgraded in the middle and nothing is happening. I agree with these people.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A woman named Rosalie, speaking from 4th Avenue in Kensington at Voortrekker Road, told the African News Agency: "It's half past five in the morning, we are on the 5th Avenue bridge and the roads are closed due to the fact that we are standing together to make a difference. "There are some of us who need to get to work, but this is very important, this is for our well-being. This is for our people's well-being for better housing, better everything. "While there is some of us that needs to get to work, I am one of those who are willing to go the extra mile." Oscar Samuels, of the shutdown movement, said on Thursday they would continue to highlight the plight of those living in backyards and for access to land and housing. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Samuels said they will hand over a memorandum to the mayor and provincial government later today. “We will rally and make sure that the rest of South Africa, the rest of the Western Cape, will come out with us next time. We will stand together. "This morning it was just a taste of things that's going to happen. After handing over our memorandum this afternoon, we will give the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape government 21 days to respond to our memorandum.” Cape Times