Started by surfer and philanthropist Tim Conibear in 2011, Waves for Change is helping children who live in and vulnerable conditions cope better by giving them life skills through surf therapy. Having benefited from surf therapy himself, Conibear started a surf club with a few children in Masiphumelele in Fish Hoek in 2008. Conibear said he had not only looked forward to surfing at the weekends during training sessions, but also to the safe space where members could talk and be heard. “I trained young adults who, in turn, could train other young children and offer them a space to talk about their experiences,” he said. Waves for Change now offers surf therapy to about 1250 children a week across coastal towns - including Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London and Liberia. “We have 45 coaches/mentors who provide vulnerable children with life skills. Based on research we conducted on mental health, we now provide the children with a continuous connection to adults who care so that their sense of safety, belonging, confidence and achievement improves,” Conibear said. A coach and mentor who is part of Waves for Change, Melreen de Villiers, said empowerment on gender equality also forms part of the training provided to the children, as most had been, in some way, affected by broader societal issues such as gangsterism and violence. “Building trust and safe relationships is key as this helps them gain a sense of worth and belonging,” she said. So every time they face those beckoning waves, they stand in a line, holding hands and “checking” with one another if they are fine and strong enough to take another step forward. “When one of them feels scared, they are given space to talk about their emotions and get encouraged to take another step forward,” De Villiers added. The UN has made health and well-being one of its Sustainable Development Goals. But in developing countries such as South Africa where resources are not enough and easily accessible, innovative methods help to address such imbalances. Waves for Change has developed a new app that will allow young adults and the unemployed to start their own mentoring and coaching spaces for vulnerable children - even using other sporting codes that are only available in inland areas. These activities could range from boxing, to athletics - even knitting - and would be designed to bring mentors and children together for development. The French government has made a R1.5 million donation to the organisation which will help it expand its range of offerings and footprint. “In the Western Cape we are spreading to the Overberg area, where research has shown that most young children are exposed to violence and others are taking over adult responsibilities and looking after their siblings,” said Conibear. Waves for Change is not only breeding new surfing and social clubs, but their surf therapy is yielding positive health outcomes, too. “Our research has shown that children who have been on the programme become more optimistic, engaged and resilient to stress,” Conibear said, adding that similar results were obtained by programmes started globally. bulelwa.payi@inl.co.za Cape Argus