According to Herron, who was the mayco member for transport and urban development, the DA prioritised the delivery of free basic housing, RDP or Breaking New Ground (BNG) homes, on poorly located land on the outskirts of the city. He said the DA was set on “creating suburbs of poverty and perpetuating the physical traits of exclusion that was the design of the apartheid government’s Group Areas Act”. “It was clear to me that BNG housing projects had to be better located - and we commenced a process of assessing planned projects in terms of their location,” Herron said. He said the process followed the cancellation of a BNG housing project in Wolwerivier. Funds were then directed “to a better located site we had acquired near Dunoon”. “It was also clear to me that we were ignoring hundreds of thousands of under-housed or homeless people who did not qualify for BNG housing because their income exceeded the very low R3500 per month threshold, but who were certainly in need of, and entitled to, subsidised housing,” he said. In 2017 the City decided not to proceed with the building of 4500 housing units at Wolwerivier. At the time, Herron said it was mainly because of the location of Wolwerivier, 30km outside the city. Wolwerivier was designed as an Incremental Development Area, for people waiting for better housing. Homeless people, and many people from informal settlements that were demolished, such as Skandaalkamp, were relocated to Wolwerivier, which has a very high unemployment rate. The Wolwerivier development formed part of the City’s Integrated Housing Project. Wolwerivier made headlines after the City offered emergency accommodation there to seven families facing eviction from Bromwell Street, Woodstock. The families refused to move, demanding alternative accommodation in the inner city. The Bromwell Street residents are facing eviction to make way for developers. However, Herron’s claim that the Wolwerivier BNG project was cancelled was denied by the mayoral committee member for human settlements, Malusi Booi. “It was put on hold because of a funding shortfall due to the huge funding required for bulk infrastructure needed to make the project possible,” Booi said. He said the site was used as a temporary relocation area, which had about 466 temporary housing units. Booi said the development of permanent housing there might happen in the long term. “Any future development in the city would be in accordance with the current sustainable settlement planning and development standards (that are) applied in an integrated manner, where mixed-use housing, as well as transport, economic and social amenities, would be included,” Booi said. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus