Skye Weiss was chosen to take part in The Phantom of the Opera in Asia next month. Weiss was selected for the production after she went for auditions at the studios of Cape Academy of Performing Arts (Capa) in Tokai last year and is among 11 South Africans who will take part in the musical. Weiss, 24, boasts a diploma in performing arts and will play one of eight ballet dancers and will be the understudy for the role of Meg Giry, who is played by Kiruna Lind Devar. Weiss was excited for about a week after she received an email notifying her that her audition was successful. “I was in the studio about to start my rehearsal when I got the email. I phoned my parents, screams and tears and smiles were the only words spoken,” she said. The Phantom of the Opera is an epic love story between a singer, a man and a phantom, and Weiss said it feels completely surreal being part of this production. “I am constantly catching myself with a huge smile on my face realising where I am and that this is my job. “Being where I am, doing what I love is honestly amazing. “The cast that I work with is an absolute blessing, every single human has such a kind and caring soul and makes going into work so exciting. “I am inspired to constantly learn and grow as a human and an artist,” she added. Weiss took part in a number of musicals at the Artscape Theatre, including Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, The King and I and Guys and Dolls. Weiss credits her family and friends for all the support. “They have always been by my side and helped me get to where I am today,” she said. “My parents Lesli and Andrew have spent countless hours fetching and carrying me to classes, fussing over costumes and sewing shoes. “They have never missed any of my performances. I only hope to make them proud as I go and do what they have supported me doing my whole life,” she said. Weiss was introduced to ballet at the age of 4 by former coach Ann Broder and like they say, the rest is history. “She taught me the fundamentals I needed for ballet. How to be beautiful, strong, elegant and fierce on stage. “I learnt so much from being on stage,” said Weiss, who enjoys reading and does a bit of yoga in her spare time. Weiss’s message to youngsters is to never give up on their dreams whether it is academics or sport. “If you have a goal then go for it. It is hard work but in the end it will pay off,” she said. The tour will run from February 28. Weekend Argus