Cape Town - The Cape’s social calendar again lights up, with the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate at Kenilworth Race Course on Saturday. Internationally acknowledged as one of the best race days in the world, the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate weight-for-age mile is one of the oldest and most storied horse races in South Africa. This year marks the 158th edition of the premier race, and for the third year the event is being staged as a two-day festival, with the fun starting on Friday. There is also a brand new seating layout to ensure everyone has a front-row seat. Accompanied by champagne and jazz, Friday’s garden party was the perfect way to wind down the week. But if you missed that you can still try to get your hands on a ticket on Saturday. While the R1.5million L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate takes pride of place on Saturday, the 10-race card also includes the prestigious Gr1 Paddock Stakes as well as three more graded races, guaranteeing an afternoon of the very best racing South Africa has to offer. Once the racing is done and the champions crowned, celebrations will continue well into the evening at the stylish Stud Club, where race-goers will put on their dancing shoes and relive the achievements of the day at the LQP after-party. Two of South Africa’s top music acts, DJ PH and Major League DJz, will headline the fun. With versatility, energy and a commanding stage presence, DJ PH’s spectacular live mash-ups have garnered him a legion of fans. In addition, between his weekly Metro FM radio show, Cruise Control, and his hosting duties on SABC 1’s Live Amp show, he is fast becoming one of the country’s most recognisable DJs. No strangers to big stages themselves, internationally lauded Afro-fusion hit-makers Major League DJz will open the after-party and set the night off to an electrifying start with their live performance, which fuses Djing and percussion. Tickets are available online at Computicket from R300 a person. The gates to the Kenilworth Race Course open at 11am. Note that no under-18s will be permitted to enter the venue. Attendees are required to adhere to the strict dress code of elegant blue and white. Right of admission is reserved. Weekend Argus