Durban - THE family of the Phoenix man who died after being mauled by two dogs is demanding action against their owners. Dharmaseelan Aubrey Moodley, 49, a casual driver, of Northcroft, was attacked a week ago, apparently by a boerboel and a labrador retriever, while walking to a friend’s home in Rucklen Place. His windpipe was crushed and he underwent a tracheostomy. Doctors had planned to implant a device in his trachea to help him breathe. He was bitten on the head and chunks of his flesh ripped off his arms, torso and legs. Moodley died on Saturday morning in intensive care at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. The dogs’ owner declined to comment. Moodley’s uncle Ivan Pillay said: “We don’t know how to handle this news. If he was attacked during an act of crime, it would have been easier to handle because it is something that is hard to avoid. But this entire situation could have been prevented if the dogs’ owners took the necessary precautions.” Pillay said nobody would understand what his family was going through: “We were told he would not be able to walk or speak again. It was hard for us to accept but we took comfort knowing he would still be with us. “His condition was stabilising and we had some hope but now there is nothing left.” Pillay said he wanted the dogs’ owners to be taken to task. “They cannot be allowed to keep such vicious dogs. An innocent man lost his life. This incident happened a week ago and the police cannot get in touch with the owners. The dogs are not on the property and we believe they have been relocated.” Pillay described the owners as irresponsible. “They know the seriousness of the incident but they are hiding from the police. What if they attack again, and what if it is a child?” A spokesperson for the SPCA, Tanya Fleischer, said the organisation did not get involved in incidents like this as its focus was on animal welfare. But if an owner of a vicious dog brought it in to be put down, then the organisation followed its Dangerous Dog Policy. “This means that any vicious dog brought into any SPCA would not be re-homed.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of keeping a ferocious dog was lodged at Phoenix Police Station. POST