  The incident has sparked outrage online, with other cyclists commenting on their experiences with allegedly aggressive SANparks rangers. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde, who visited Dlamini in hospital, is calling for a full investigation into this specific event as well as the claims of a belligerent relationship between rangers and cyclists. “I’m really angry,” Winde said. “So many people are saying that the relationship between cyclists and SANparks is not a good one. We need to have organised cycling and SANparks around a table and say, ‘where to from here?’ When people have authority and a uniform you just cannot behave that way. We’ve got to build a different relationship.” The Pedal Power Association called on cyclists to unite against the rangers’ behaviour. “It is unacceptable. We as cyclists need to stand together against this kind of behaviour,” the PPA said in a tweet. “We will assist Nic in making sure that this kind of gang assault at the hands of SANparks rangers never happens to another cyclist ever again.” Meanwhile Dlamini’s cycling team, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qubeka) said the injury would be a major setback on the brink of a hugely promising year ahead. “The 24-year-old had just completed a very promising 2019 which included his first Grand Tour, and he was looking at following that up with further participation in some of the sport’s biggest races in 2020. “This unnecessary injury will now have a serious effect on that, as well as his chances of racing at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games,” they said. Team principal Douglas Ryder condemned the violence with which Dlamini was treated. “I was both devastated and appalled to see the video of Nicholas on social media,” Ryder said. “To watch a young man who I know so well in such unnecessary distress made me feel sick, to be honest. The way in which he was treated is simply not acceptable.” Dlamini is receiving medical care and will decide with his team the best way forward for his cycling career. Meanwhile, Minister Barbara Creecy called on those involved in the fracas to be suspended pending an investigation into the incident.     I have just visited @nich_dlamini in hospital and heard first hand his horrible experience. I have instructed @SANParks to suspend all official involved and implement an independent investigation. Weekend Argus