Disaster Risk Management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said: “There was flooding in informal settlements in Masiphumelele in Fish Hoek, Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay and Makhaza in Khayelitsha, where approximately 3000 dwellings have been affected. “In Imizamo Yethu, seven dwellings were destroyed by an uprooted tree. Roofs have been damaged by strong winds in Mamre, Strand, Gugulethu and Belhar.” The SA Weather Service has issued warnings for severe conditions that will impact the Cape Peninsula this week. Specific impacts relate to two periods of gale-force winds and heavy rainfall that may exceed 50mm in high-lying areas, as well as high seas. Powell has also urged motorists to be vigilant on the roads. “Slow down, maintain a safe distance between cars, turn on your headlights and watch out for standing water,” she said. Roadways were flooded in Southfield, Grassy Park, Killarney, Kraaifontein, Atlantis, Mamre, Hout Bay, Kuils River, Mitchells Plain, Macassar, Parow and Durbanville. Storm-related electricity disruptions were experienced in Plattekloof and Rylands. “City departments are assisting the affected communities, including making alternative accommodation available, and Sassa has been informed around the need for humanitarian relief,” Powell said. A review of the numbers for two severe cold fronts last month shows that the city’s Disaster Risk Management Centre recorded 760 incidents, ranging from blocked drains to fallen trees and flooding. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The centre co-ordinates the city’s response to incidents that impact on the safety and well-being of residents. On Tuesday night, Powell added that power outages were being experienced in many areas due to the adverse weather conditions - Bellville, Phillip, Nyanga, Simon's town, Bonteheuwel, Manneberg, Crawford, Milnerton , Observatory and Thornton. Last month, it received weather warnings from the weather service on two occasions. Severe weather fallouts reports included flooding to varying degrees; roofs damaged or blown off by strong winds, fallen trees and branches, blocked drains and power outages, among others. Here is a look at the varied impact of the weather throughout the region on Tuesday: To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus