Retired police officer Keith Blake, who has been fishing at the beachfront since 2008, pointed out that safety was one of the main concerns for fishermen, and that dilapidated toilets in the area were an eyesore. “At present the whole area reflects a war zone, with craters in the beach road area and no sufficient toilets. We are busy forming an action group to take up the fight with the City of Cape Town. “We want to know from the City why they can’t develop the Strandfontein pavilion and surrounding area into a Strandfontein Waterfront. In this way businesses, takeaways and little shops can be created with the safe security so that people on the Cape Flats can in great numbers visit the beachfront,” Blake said. He also highlighted the idea of building a petrol station next to Baden Powell and Strandfontein Roads. He believes this feature will be a benefit to motorists using the long stretch of road. Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Marian Nieuwoudt, emphasised that the upgrade of Fisherman’s Lane on the False Bay coastline was one of the most important projects the City will be undertaking over the next three years. “Officials within the Coastal Management Department have already started with the planning of the Fisherman’s Lane project and professional service providers will be appointed before the end of next month if all goes as planned. “We aim to have the contractor on site by October 2020 and for the project to be completed by November 2021 if there are no unforeseen delays. “We intend to upgrade the existing braai area, and to provide a new picnic/braai area, additional parking bays, a new walkway where the road has collapsed, and to replace the broken sea wall with a rock revetment. It is high time that we restore and protect this area for future generations,” she said. She said R25 million had been allocated for the upgrade. Nieuwoudt underlined that the City would assess any development proposal/application for a filling station in terms of the Municipal Planning By-law and the City’s zoning. She added that it was up to the private sector to come forward with such an application. vincent.cruywagen@inl.co.za Cape Argus