DStv subscribers are fuming after the news that MultiChoice will be dumping three long-running TV channels. According to its website, MultiChoice will, at the end of the month remove the History (DStv 186), Crime+Investigation Network (DStv 170) and Lifetime channel (DStv 131). "As part of our ongoing efforts to refresh our local content line-up and optimise the suite of channels on offer, MultiChoice Group will be saying goodbye to the History, Crime+Investigation and Lifetime channels on its DStv platform at the end of the current contract term. The current contract expires on 1 November," DStv said. DStv said that soon there will be an announcement of two new channels to DStv. The first will be an established global brand and the other is a new innovative brand. They claim both channels will bring exciting new titles and genres that viewers will really enjoy. Among the channels are shows like "Little Women", "Married at First Sight", "Intervention", "Homicide Hunter", "Curse of Oak Island", "The First 48" and "Live PD: Police Patrol" - which are favourites among subscribes, who are now threatening to cancel their DStv premium and Compact Plus subscriptions. TWITTER REACTS     #DStv But how am I going to survive without INVISTIGATION DISCOVERY and CRIME INVESTIGATION 😭 pic.twitter.com/Os2N1bdRno      Dstv today is televising useless games. We tired of English football...since marawa is gone, u no longer hv good presenters... U r boring.. Im downgrading next month #DStv @DStv      Brur we are paying for a lot of useless content compared to what we want, it's better to choose coz as people we like different kinds of content but @DStv forces us to watch and pay for what we don't have a choice on it's sad😔 pic.twitter.com/tL32wVYesl      @DStv are you taking away the Crime channel because there is a new program starting soon 'Crime Stories of South Africa'? Trying your best to hide the crime situation in SA? #AskingForAFriend #DStv      DSTV takes its customers for a joke. I only pay Premium coz we want soccer! I will only forgive DSTV for removing Crime Investigation if they replace it with a 24/7 Porn Channel 😜😜🤣 pic.twitter.com/AQ6rEkx871  Some subscribers have started a petition on Twitter to stop DStv from removing the channels, saying that "these are amazing channels and very loved by SA DStv community. This decision is illogical and clearly shows they (DStv) only worry about their profits and not quality of shows for their customers", the petition read.      DStv : History, Lifetime and Crime & Investigation Channels to remain on DStv!! - Sign the Petition! https://t.co/88xPrwxgck via @Change  BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 