Durban - Members of the police's special investigating unit, the Hawks descended on the plush Durban North property of former eThekwini Mayor, Zandile Gumede on Thursday to seize assets related to a dodgy R208 million tender within the Durban Solid Waste (DSW) department that she is facing corruption charges against. The properties of two other people connected to the tender were also raided by the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Agency's Asset Forfeiture Unit where sports cars and other assets were taken. Gumede was not at the Illchester Avenue property in Durban North when the police arrived. Attempts were being made to reach her to serve her with a notice to attach her assets. Gumede, who was recently relieved of her mayoral position by the ANC is currently in facing fraud, corruption and racketeering charges, along with nine other people in the Durban Commercial Crime Court. The charges stem from an investigation by the Hawk's National Clean Audit Task Team (NCATT) investigation at the eThekwini Municipality that also saw DSW deputy head, Robert Abbu and the city's supply chain manager, Sandile Ngcobo arrested in relation to the tender. The other suspects in the matter are, Hlenga Sibisi, 43, Mzwandile Dludla, 24, Sinthamone Ponnan, 55, Sithulele Mkhize, 38, Bongani Dlomo, 53, and Prabagaram Pariah, 61. According to reports the Hawks had launched the investigation into Gumede following a forensic investigation into the awarding of a contract to hire and clean chemical toilets. A forensic report, compiled by Integrity Forensic Solutions which had been commissioned by the council’s own City Integrity and Investigations Unit, found that Gumede, Mthembu, and three officials orchestrated a tender scam which saw eThekwini pay R25 million to hire and clean chemical toilets for six months. The same council had previously paid R3 million to hire the same toilets for three years. The report found that Mthembu, Gumede and three other officials had a hand in the scam. Gumede has vehemently denied the allegations. Daily News