Anele Mdoda landed in hot water over the weekend when she said Kelly Rowland doesn't look good without make-up. This all began when Sizwe Dhlomo tweeted: "Kelly Rowland could lowkey be the best looking one in DC." Anele then quote tweeted him in a now deleted tweet and said: "Kelly looks amazing with make-up. Take that make-up off, then it's tickets. I have receipts".     Kelly Rowland could lowkey be the best looking one in DC... Followed by a collage picture of the "Motivation" singer with and without make-up.     pic.twitter.com/YpNIl6h8pO South African tweeps were confused by both the comment and the "receipts" since Kelly looked good in both pictures.     Whatever emotion you’re projecting please put it back into the dark closet. Kelly Rowland is a beautiful woman. There’s no need for this.      Both those pictures are pretty though🤣🤣🤣🤣😂  Is this the "receipts"?😕       I have never in all my years heard anyone say Kelly isn’t gorgeous with or without makeup. pic.twitter.com/sw9lo4IdzD Mzansi then started dragging her for her comments and also started insulting her for her looks.     Kelly Rowland without makeup 10 - 0 Anele with makeup pic.twitter.com/vrd9lsho0y     Not even make can save you💀💀💀💀💀 but keep throwing those stones pic.twitter.com/JOnHTvRbli     Anele VS Kelly Rowland with and without make up🤔 pic.twitter.com/QL6uNmFXPT     Beauty VS Beast Anele Issa Hippo she doesn't stand a chance,imagine a whole Hippo saying that Kelly Rowland is ugly without makeup pic.twitter.com/w5pKAfrd1i However, it wasn't until American Twitter got a hold of her comments that things started heating up.     So US Twitter just found Anele’s tweet pic.twitter.com/8cazSMJPVL Local tweeps also started distancing themselves from Anele's comments as they saw her being dragged.     SA Black Twitter watching American Twitter drag Anele to filth pic.twitter.com/QozRJfcefA     Africans have distanced themselves from Anele 💔 Fear American Twitter, fear it 😂😂 #anele pic.twitter.com/mWovEJbvGw     I’m loving what American Twitter is doing to Anele. When we make those jokes we are bullies😂😂😂 Finnish her Comrades 😂😂 pic.twitter.com/pVHKrpiuAn     We can't even defend Anele against American Twitter because honestly she was wrong 😭 On Monday, Phat Joe also threw in a bit of indirect shade during his "Phat Joe and The Family" radio show when he asked "have you ever been criticised by someone below your level?", which Mzansi found hilarious.     Phat Joe's topic is "have you ever been criticized by someone below your level"?... He's trolling 😂😂😂😂     Phat Joe is having the time of his life this morning 😂     Phat Joe right now @Radio2000ZA " have ever been criticize by someone below your level" #Anele pic.twitter.com/ikggNgShkZ In case you missed it, Phat Joe and Anele were caught in a public spat after he questioned why she was a judge on Miss SA, to which Anele labelled him a piece of sh*t for his comments. Phat Joe did eventually apologise for his comments via a private phone call, but it seems he couldn't miss this opportunity to throw a little shade Anele's way.